




<!-- NEWS.md was auto-generated by NEWS.Rmd. Please DO NOT edit by hand!-->

# NEWS for the R Package RLumModel

## Changes in version 0.2.10.9000-34 (2022-01-20)

-   New function: `trace_ParameterStateEvolution()` to allow tracing of
    the evoluton of the concentration during the modelling for different
    steps
-   `.set_pars()` now consistently supports both spellings for the model
    `"customized"` and `"customized"`
-   `.set_pars()` now returns a character vector with the names of the
    allowed keywords if model is missing. This is also internally used
    in `model_LuminescenceSignals()` to avoid inconsistencies.
-   `.set_pars()` now returns also the parameter names and units as
    extra elements
-   A new vignette, called “RLumModel - Models and parameters” was added
    to provide a better overview and comparison of the different models
-   Add support for Bailey (2001) model variation of Peng et al. (2022),
    keyword in `model_LuminescenceSignals()` is `"Peng2022"`

------------------------------------------------------------------------

## Changes in version 0.2.9 (November 08, 2021)

-   Export internal function `.set_pars()`

------------------------------------------------------------------------

## Changes in version 0.2.8 (April 08, 2021)

-   This version requires R \> 3.6.0
-   `model_LuminescenceSignals()` now returns the applied modelling
    parameters in the `@info` slot of the returned `RLum.Analysis`
    object (requested by @coffeemuggler)
-   Add support for `'testthat'` \>= 3.0.0 (no user visible changes)

------------------------------------------------------------------------

## Changes in version 0.2.7 (September 04, 2020)

-   Changed `Makevars` to tackle Solaris problems

------------------------------------------------------------------------

## Changes in version 0.2.6 (August 31, 2020)

-   Switch vignette builder to `'R.rsp'` to avoid ATLAS BLAS warning
-   Drop dependency (‘suggests’) to `'knitr'`, `'kableExtra'` and
    `'rmarkdown'`
-   The minimum required R version is now 3.5.0

------------------------------------------------------------------------

## Changes in version 0.2.5 (15nd December, 2019)

-   Changes in ‘Luminescence’ broke the vignette; now modified with a
    workaround
-   Updated maintainer email address

------------------------------------------------------------------------

## Changes in version 0.2.4 (16nd August, 2018)

-   Minor internal corrections

------------------------------------------------------------------------

## Changes in version 0.2.3 (22nd November, 2017)

### Miscellaneous

-   Add further tests

### Bugfixes and changes:

-   set_pars(): \* Add new parameter set “Friedrich2018”

------------------------------------------------------------------------

## Changes in version 0.2.2 (13th October, 2017)

### Miscellaneous

-   Update error messages and tests
-   Add vignette “RLumModel - Simulating luminescence in
    Al<sub>2</sub>O<sub>3</sub>”
-   Change vignettes from PDF to HTML
    -   Change vignette builder from r.rsp to knitr
    -   Add kableExtra to SUGGESTS

------------------------------------------------------------------------

## Changes in version 0.2.1 (13th April, 2017)

### Miscellaneous

-   Fix CRAN NOTE for not declared entry points.
-   Expand tests.

### Bugfixes and changes:

-   simulate_LM_OSL():
    -   Right call to .set_ODE_Rcpp_LM_OSL

------------------------------------------------------------------------

## Changes in version 0.2.0 (20th January, 2017)

### New functions:

-   set_ODE_Rcpp() & set_ODE_Rcpp():
    -   Changed the main calculations of the ODEs to C++ via Rcpp. This
        results in an extreme fast calculation of ODE calcualtions. Slow
        calculations like DRT or SAR can be solved much faster now.
-   simulate_RF_and_heating():
    -   Simulating the process of heating/cooling a sample and detect
        luminescence during irradiation.

### Bugfixes and changes:

-   calc_concentrations():

    -   Add maximum change of concentration in specific level to slot
        ‘info’ in every RLum.Data.Curve.

-   calc_signal():

    -   As a result of the changes in ‘set_pars’ the index of the
        luminescence center changed. This was adjusted in ‘calc_signal’.

-   model_LuminescenceSignals():

    -   Add new parameter ‘own_parameters’: Parameter to submit an own
        parameter set for simulations. For further details see vignette
        ‘RLumModel - Using own parameter sets’.
        -   Add new parameter ‘own_state_parameters’: Parameter to
            submit own state parameters together with an own parameter
            set.
        -   Add new parameter ‘own_start_temperature’: Parameter to
            submit own start temperature together with an own parameter
            set.

-   set_pars():

    -   Changed order in the vectors N, E, s, A, B: The luminescence
        center is now always the last entry. This was necessary to use
        OTOR models with own parameters much easier.
    -   Output is now a list and not a RLum.Results object.
        -   Add new parameter set “Friedrich2017”.
        -   Add new case ‘customized’ for own parameter sets.

-   simulate_CW_OSL():

    -   Remove ‘RLumModel_ID’ from slot info to slot .pid. This
        RLumModel_ID describes the order of the command in the sequence.

-   simulate_irradiation():

    -   New distinction of cases adding the possibility to use own
        pair-production-rates.
        -   argument ‘dose = 0’ is now possible without error (#4,
            thanks to Christoph Burow)

-   simulate_LM_OSL(): \* Remove ‘RLumModel_ID’ from slot info to slot
    .pid. This RLumModel_ID describes the order of the command in the
    sequence.

-   simulate_RF(): \* Remove ‘RLumModel_ID’ from slot ‘info’ to slot
    .pid. This RLumModel_ID describes the order of the command in the
    sequence. \* New distinction of cases adding the possibility to use
    own pair-production-rates.

-   simulate_TL(): \* Remove ‘RLumModel_ID’ from slot info to slot .pid.
    This RLumModel_ID describes the order of the command in the
    sequence.

-   tests: \* Expanded tests

-   translate_sequence():

    -   Hardcoded originator from returning object to
        “model_LuminescenceSignals()”
        -   Add ‘sequence’ to slot ‘info’ in returning RLum.Analysis
            object.
        -   Add ‘originators’ to slot ‘info’ in returning RLum.Analysis
            object.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

## Changes in version 0.1.2 (2nd September, 2016)

### Bugfixes and changes:

-   Added vignette:

    -   Added vignette ‘Getting started with RLumModel’.

-   set_ODE():

    -   Remove ‘b’, ‘temp’, ‘R’ and ‘P’ from unpacking, because these
        parameters are already stored in parameters.step.
        -   Remove distinction of cases ‘model = Pagonis’ or ‘model =
            Bailey’ due to a misstake in Bailey 2001, 2002 and 2004. The
            rate equation for the valence band is wrong. Thanks to an
            unknown reviewer of Friedrich et al. 2016.

-   set_ODE_LM_OSL():

    -   Remove ‘a’, ‘b’, ‘temp’, ‘R’ and ‘P’ from unpacking, because
        these parameters are already stored in parameters.step.
        -   Remove distinction of cases ‘model = Pagonis’ or ‘model =
            Bailey’ due to a misstake in Bailey 2001, 2002 and 2004. The
            rate equation for the valence band is wrong. Thanks to an
            unknown reviewer of Friedrich et al. 2016.

-   simulate_CW_OSL():

    -   Changed ode solver to ‘ode’ with method ‘bdf’ for faster solving
        long illumination times.

-   simulate_illumination(): \* Changed ode solver to ‘ode’ with method
    ‘bdf’ for faster solving long illumination times.

-   simulate_irradiation():

    -   Changed choice of pair-production-rate ‘R’, so that Bailey 2004
        has the right value of 2.5e10.

-   simulate_LM_OSL(): \* Changed ode solver to ‘ode’ with method ‘bdf’
    for faster solving long illumination times.

-   simulate_RF(): \* Changed choice of pair-production-rate ‘R’, so
    that Bailey 2004 has the right value of 2.5e10.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

## Changes in version 0.1.1 (2nd May, 2016)

-   Changed tests because of new package structure of ‘testthat’.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

## Changes in version 0.1.0 (3rd February, 2016)

-   Initial version
